[Music]
welcome to the world of Japanese
animation legends studio ghibli a world
filled with extraordinary characters
uncanny transformations and breathtaking
fantasy landscapes where it seems
anything can happen
but what's truly magical about Ghibli in
their films is when they're at their
most every day two girls are standing at
a bus stop and a giant forest troll
walks up beside them my neighbor totoro
might be director Hayao Miyazaki's most
spellbinding and iconic adventure but
what makes this scene so transcendent
isn't Totoro himself it's his
enthusiastic response to the rain scenes
like this crop up throughout Ghibli's
films moments where fantastical stories
home in on mundane details to
enthralling effect in the middle of an
apocalyptic tsunami a supernatural fish
girl discovers a new favorite food
[Music]
and the combined hand-drawn skill of
Ghibli animators turn honey tea into a
thing of wonder is in the best in the
world of Ghibli food is magical and
often lives alongside magic
in Kiki's Delivery Service were just as
beguiled by the young witches
otherworldly powers as we are by the
alchemy of baking and if you're moving
castle is powered by a domesticated fire
spirits well why not enlist him to cook
up the ultimate fried breakfast
[Music]
when we watch animation we expect to see
things that are out of the ordinary but
jubblies unique gift is to infuse the
ordinary with magical qualities even
that most boring of daily chores
cleaning is given the Ghibli treatment
from old Sophie taking it upon herself
to spruce up Howl's Moving Castle such a
heroes enchanted bath house in spirited
away
[Music]
there is an or inspiring attention to
detail and a sense of wonder in those
details that makes these scenes so
transporting mysterious train tracks
lead off into the horizon majestic
flying machines fill the sky
the beguiling fantasy vistas of a Ghibli
film and ever that far from our own
but what about Ghibli's real-world films
often the opposite is true in the
historical melodrama the wind rises
scenes are given a spark of stylized
fantasy from the terrifying Great Kanto
Earthquake which ripples across the
landscape like a billowing bedsheets
[Music]
to the chosen profession of our lead
character Jiro only in Ghibli films with
the work of an airplane engineer be
captured with such energy and magic
[Music]
[Applause]
- hi-oh Miyazaki in both fantasy and
reality
airplanes are beautiful dreams
in Studio Ghibli's films reality doesn't
always require realism we see this in
the painterly hyper-real countryside's
of when Marnie was there and only
yesterday where the characters emotions
seem to be imbuing they're very
surroundings with a palpable
irresistible charge
or in whisper of the heart a team
romance in which the landscape of
suburban Tokyo is rendered with
exquisite detail come here it's getting
cold
Shizuku I love you too our young lovers
even a sleepy commuter town brims with
the promise of adventure and given the
right place and right time of day you
can find magic wherever you are
for over 35 years Studio Ghibli's films
have offered as spectacular visions
without parallel but their greatest most
captivating achievement is that they
make us look at the world around us with
new eyes
[Music]
welcome to the world of studio ghibli a
world where magic is only ever just
around the corner
[Music]